[Music]
hey there
so you're scrolling through the newsfeed
when you get a message in another app
you try to switch to it but your phone
is awfully slow to react and then stops
responding altogether and it's almost
out of power it's a twofer so how do you
optimize it and charge it fast 1 close
everything you don't use every app you
open once stays in the background until
you close it or reboot your phone it's
stored in the memory for quick access
so naturally the more apps you've got
open the slower your device if you close
them all or at least those you haven't
used in a long time you'll notice the
difference in performance to update your
firmware your phone's manufacturer is
constantly working on improving your
experience with the device especially if
it's a new model newer firmware is
available to download and install online
and you should receive notifications
about the updates by default if you
don't then check for updates manually in
the settings might be you missed an
opportunity to make your phone work
better 3 get rid of anything that moves
this includes live wallpapers widgets
and app animation to name a few
everything that floats and Wiggles on
your screen uses up additional resources
although it does look cool granted to
make your phone the best performer use
instead
static wallpapers delete all widgets and
disable any additional animation
for update your apps when it comes to
tech and software new is almost always
better newer versions of your apps work
faster get rid of errors of their
predecessors and generally are easier on
the system if automatic update isn't on
check the apps manually and press update
when available it's also a good way to
remember which apps you don't regularly
use and remove them
speaking of which five reboot your phone
did you try turning your device off and
on again yeah I know it's annoying but
it works by rebooting your phone you
clear the RAM or random access memory
from everything that clutters it and
that speeds it up it stops even those
processes that you didn't know we're
running think of it as letting your
device have a nap your brain needs sleep
to recover and so does your phone six
clear the cache cache is the information
different apps accumulate in order to
run faster with every following startup
this info is stored in your device's
memory and with time it starts to weigh
heavy on the system slowing it down you
can clear the cache manually for each
app but there are free solutions
available in Play Store and app store
that will do it much faster 7 remove
apps you stopped using just like with
computers things you have installed on
your phone take up space and leave other
traces in the system they may also have
permissions that allow them to track
your location access your camera and
much more uninstalling the apps you
don't have need for anymore will not
only improve performance but make your
phone hold charge longer
eight clear your messages a single text
message may not take up much space but
tons of them way literally times memory
wise if you haven't checked your SMS
storage for a while it's high time you
do just that delete everything you don't
need and go to settings to set up
deleting all messages older than 30 days
this way you'll never have too much
garbage cluttering your phone die
control your background data some apps
such as location and weather ones use up
data in the background with you none the
wiser
they constantly refresh to keep up to
date so they can really slow you down at
some point go to the settings and
disable apps you don't need in
background app refresh menu of iPhone or
turn on restrict background data on an
Android device 10 troubleshoot faulty
apps even a single apple lagging behind
may slow down the whole system if you
know what it is solve the problem by
uninstalling and reinstalling the
culprit or if you use Android just clear
the cache in the app settings it will
only remove temporary files though so if
it doesn't help choose clear data
instead you'll have to enter all the
info again then for example your
previously saved passwords but it should
resolve any issues this app caused 11
force reset if everything fails and your
device has turned into a brick with a
screen look up online a button
combination that forces your exact make
and model reset even when it's frozen
don't worry you won't lose any data this
trick is just the same as simply turning
the device off when you turn it back on
your phone will most likely work just
fine and you can try to find what caused
the crash in the first place
twelve charge your phone faster many
modern phones come with a built-in fast
charging system that allows them to pick
up juice two or even three times faster
than usual the only catch is that you
need the original charger for that but
if your model doesn't support that
feature or if you don't have your
charging device at hand
you can resort to using a laptop charger
instead it comes with a higher wattage
which means higher energy output so your
phone will go to full charge more
swiftly just make sure your device can
survive it if the laptop charger has
more watts than the maximum number
written in your phone specs it'll likely
pry your device in that case
unfortunately you'll have to make do
with the phone's own charger if the
chargers wattage is lower though you can
safely plug it in and enjoy the speed
just don't overuse this tip as it might
wear down your phone's battery sooner
than you'd like 13 check the temperature
your phone is very sensitive temperature
wise if it's too hot or too cold it'll
experience all kinds of issues from
working really slow to crashing
altogether if the outside temperature is
moderate check if your device isn't
overheating from inside monitor the temp
with a special app or just use your hand
as an indicator the phone shouldn't be
hot to the touch while charging or using
apps if it is consider changing your
charger or going to the service center
14 move to the cloud full to the brim
internal memory won't really slow down
your phone but it's a pain when you want
to take a photo shoot a video or
download an app the simplest way to free
up some space on your device is to
transfer all available files to cloud
services they're convenient in more ways
than one you can access your files from
any device and they'll stay intact even
if you lose your phone or factory reset
it
fifteen cut down on data usage browsing
can get real slow when you've exceeded
your data limit for the day you can
control it by manually disabling
background data usage in the separate
app settings on Android or by tapping
Settings than mobile data and turning
off the switches for each app on iOS
this will prevent the selected apps from
using cellular networks for updates and
only use Wi-Fi instead when available
16th try custom launchers Play Store has
a nice variety of launchers that replace
your home screen and allow you to
customize it in many more ways than
usual with a little tweaking you can
increase performance of your phone by as
much as 50% and these Chargers look cool
to add to them being mostly free and the
answer is clear iPhone users have a
smaller choice and their apps are paid
but a couple of bucks for a faster
device seems to me like a fair price 17
root your device if you're an Android
user you can get root access to your
phone which offers new opportunities
altogether for example you can install a
custom ROM or read-only memory then acts
like a firmware update or overclock your
cpu to get it working faster bear in
mind though that rooting your device
instantly void your warranty so only is
it if you're sure of what you're doing
and preferably when your phone has
already exceeded warranty so there's
some secrets for you hey if you learned
something new today then give the video
a like and share it with a friend
and here are some other videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life